Add content/en/container-orchestration.md (#993)
cncf/glossary: content/en/container-orchestration.md

---
title: Container Orchestration
status: Completed
category: Concept
---

## What it is

> Container orchestration automates container deployment, management, scaling, and networking. It's primary goal is to manage the life cycle of containers and their dynamic environments.A conductor, like in an orchestra, directs a group of musicians who work collaboratively to perform a piece of music. Similarly containers in your application are orchestra musicians.

Reviewer: A following space after the period is missing.

```suggestion
Container orchestration automates container deployment, management, scaling, and networking. It's primary goal is to manage the life cycle of containers and their dynamic environments. A conductor, like in an orchestra, directs a group of musicians who work collaboratively to perform a piece of music. Similarly containers in your application are orchestra musicians.
```

## Problem it addresses 

> On behalf of the user, container orchestration organises the compute, networking, and storage infrastructure. To ensure that applications are highly available and computing resources are used to their full potential, it does away with the requirement for direct manual orchestration in a cluster and automates the orchestration process.  

Reviewer: I think that currently most words in the CNCF Glossary are in American style.
And I checked [Style Guide](https://glossary.cncf.io/style-guide/), but cannot find sentence that mentions about spelling style (maybe we need this now or later).

Dear maintainers (@CathPag @JasonMorgan @iamNoah1 @seokho-son),
what do you think about this? 😊

```suggestion
On behalf of the user, container orchestration organizes the compute, networking, and storage infrastructure. To ensure that applications are highly available and computing resources are used to their full potential, it does away with the requirement for direct manual orchestration in a cluster and automates the orchestration process.  
```

> On behalf of the user, container orchestration organizes the compute, networking, and storage infrastructure. To ensure that applications are highly available and computing resources are used to their full potential, it does away with the requirement for direct manual orchestration in a cluster and automates the orchestration process.  

Author: Cool, I'll modify that section.

> On behalf of the user, container orchestration organizes the compute, networking, and storage infrastructure. To ensure that applications are highly available and computing resources are used to their full potential, it does away with the requirement for direct manual orchestration in a cluster and automates the orchestration process.  

Author: Modified this section, let me know what you think of that

## How it helps

> Container orchestration results in a more seamless customer experience by increasing productivity, resilience to failure, scalability, and flexibility. In addition to offering a platform for running, managing, and operating containers, it controls the container life cycle. For all container workloads and infrastructure, it offers a centralised management interface that also aids in logging and monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Container orchestration results in a more seamless customer experience by increasing productivity, resilience to failure, scalability, and flexibility. In addition to offering a platform for running, managing, and operating containers, it controls the container life cycle. For all container workloads and infrastructure, it offers a centralized management interface that also aids in logging and monitoring.
```

> Container orchestration results in a more seamless customer experience by increasing productivity, resilience to failure, scalability, and flexibility. In addition to offering a platform for running, managing, and operating containers, it controls the container life cycle. For all container workloads and infrastructure, it offers a centralized management interface that also aids in logging and monitoring.

Reviewer 2: This needs some work too. I (or someone else on our team) will provide more concrete feedback in the next few days.

Author: Great, looking forward to it.

> Container orchestration results in a more seamless customer experience by increasing productivity, resilience to failure, scalability, and flexibility. In addition to offering a platform for running, managing, and operating containers, it controls the container life cycle. For all container workloads and infrastructure, it offers a centralized management interface that also aids in logging and monitoring.

Reviewer 2: Don't think the customer experience plays a role here (at least not directly), so I'd skip that. Increase productivity, resilience to failure, scalability, and flexibility is the result but not the how. 

My suggestion is above but I'll need Noah's help. Feel free to commit it now, so we can iterate from there.

@iamNoah1, once this is live, we'll get rid of the Kubernetes definition as we don't want to have any definition for particular technologies. I "borrowed" some of the [Kubernetes](https://glossary.cncf.io/kubernetes/)' definitions (which is far too technical btw!). Here are my discussion points:

Not all container orchestrators work declaratively (I think), but since Kubernetes is the clear leader and we won't have a k8s definition soon, we should say that that's how they often work (same with self-healing). Anything else we need to say here?

---
title: Container Orchestration
status: Completed
category: Concept
---

## What it is

> [Container](/container/) orchestration provides the ability to manage and automate the lifecycle of containerized applications in dynamic environments. This includes different aspects that are also pursued by [Cloud Native Technologies](/cloud-native-tech/) and [Cloud Native Apps](/cloud-native-apps/), such as: deployment, (auto)scaling, auto healing and monitoring.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Container](/container/) orchestration provides the ability to manage 
and automate the lifecycle of containerized applications in dynamic environments. 
This includes different aspects that are also pursued by [Cloud Native Technologies](/cloud-native-tech/) and [Cloud Native Apps](/cloud-native-apps/), 
such as: deployment, (auto)scaling, auto healing and monitoring.
```

> It functions like a data center operating system (OS), managing [containerized](/containerization/) applications at scale (just like the OS on your laptop that manages your apps).

Reviewer 3: I am not sure if this metaphor is accurate. I like the orchestrator of an orchestra metaphor, but that is just my opinion. 

Maybe we can say something like: "It works like a conductor of an orchestra, who makes sure that every part of the orchestra does what it should."

> It functions like a data center operating system (OS), managing [containerized](/containerization/) applications at scale (just like the OS on your laptop that manages your apps).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It functions like a data center operating system (OS), 
managing [containerized](/containerization/) applications at scale 
(just like the OS on your laptop that manages your apps).
```

## Problem it addresses 

> The rise of [Cloud Native Apps](/cloud-native-apps/) and [technologies](/cloud-native-tech/) as well as the fast changing demands of modern businesses introduced a new set of problems. Managing microservices, security and network related things at scale as well as distributed system in general are hard if not impossible to manage manually.   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The rise of [Cloud Native Apps](/cloud-native-apps/) and [technologies](/cloud-native-tech/) 
as well as the fast-changing demands of modern businesses introduced a new set of problems. Managing [microservices](/microservices), security, and network-related things at scale, 
as well as [distributed systems](/distributed-systems) in general, 
are hard if not impossible to manage manually.   
```

## How it helps

> Container orchestration, provides a declarative method of automating much of the work, which makes the operational complexity manageable for development and operations, or DevOps. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Container orchestration provides a declarative method of automating much of the work, 
which makes the operational complexity manageable for software engineering teams.
```

> This includes a variety of tasks that software teams must perform in order to manage the lifecycle of a container, such as provisioning, deployment, scaling (both up and down), networking, load balancing, and other activities.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This includes a variety of tasks, such as provisioning, deployment, scaling (both up and down), networking, load balancing, and other activities.
```

> Orchestrators are also often [self-healing](https://glossary.cncf.io/self-healing/), ensuring the cluster's actual state always matches the operator's desired state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

This sentence does not really add to the understanding of what a container orchestrator is.

---
title: Container Orchestration
status: Draft
category: Concept
---

## What it is

> [Container](/container/) orchestration provides the ability to manage and automate the lifecycle of containerized applications in dynamic environments. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Container](/container/) orchestration refers to managing and automating containerized applications' lifecycles in dynamic environments. 
```

Provided the ability to manage = too many words

Reviewer 2: We should probably add in the first section that this is infrastructure specific.

> This includes different aspects that are also pursued by [Cloud Native Technologies](/cloud-native-tech/) and [Cloud Native Apps](/cloud-native-apps/), such as: deployment, (auto)scaling, auto healing and monitoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's executed through a [cloud native technology](/cloud-native-tech/) (in most cases, [Kubernetes[(/kubernetes)) that enables deployments, (auto)scaling, auto-healing, and monitoring. 
Orchestration is a metaphor. 
```
Orchestration tools are cloud native tech

> This includes different aspects that are also pursued by [Cloud Native Technologies](/cloud-native-tech/) and [Cloud Native Apps](/cloud-native-apps/), such as: deployment, (auto)scaling, auto healing and monitoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's [cloud native technology](/cloud-native-tech/) that enables deployment, (auto)scaling, auto-healing, and monitoring. 
Orchestration is a metaphor. 
```

> It works like a conductor of an orchestra, who makes sure that every part of the orchestra does what it should.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The orchestration tool conducts containers like a music conductor, ensuring every container (or musician) does what it should. 
```

## Problem it addresses 

> The rise of [Cloud Native Apps](/cloud-native-apps/) and [technologies](/cloud-native-tech/) as well as the fast-changing demands of modern businesses introduced a new set of problems. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rise of [cloud native apps](/cloud-native-apps/) and technologies and the fast-changing demands of modern businesses introduced a new set of problems. 
```

> Managing [microservices](/microservices), security, and network-related things at scale, as well as [distributed systems](/distributed-systems) in general, are hard if not impossible to manage manually.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Managing [microservices](/microservices), security, and network communication at scale — [distributed systems](/distributed-systems) in general — are hard, if not impossible, to manage manually.
Container orchestration automates all these management tasks. 
```

network-related things doesn't sound good. I assume it's communication?

> ## How it helps

Reviewer 3: If it is declarative or imperative does not really matter regarding how an orchestrator helps. I would more likely focus on the fact that the orchestrator takes care that all containerized apps are in a certain state. The fact that the orchestrator itself is self healing, does not necessarily ensure that the cluster remains in the desired state. Also cluster is a term that you used the first time in relation to container orchestration. This might confuse readers, and I am not entirely if all container orchestrators are clusters.

Author: Okay, will modify according to your suggestions

__
[![sema-logo](https://app.semasoftware.com/img/sema-tray-logo.gif)](https://semasoftware.com/gh) &nbsp;**Tags:** Brittle

> Container orchestration provides a declarative method of automating much of the work, which makes the operational complexity manageable for software engineering teams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Container orchestration tools allow users to determine a system's state declaratively. 
First, they determine (or declare) how it should look like (e.g., x containers, y pods, etc.).
The orchestration tool will then automatically monitor the infrastructure and correct it if its state deviates from the declared one (e.g., spin up a new container if one crashes). 
```

Reviewer 3: Let's modify it a little bit: 
```suggestion
Container orchestration tools allow users to determine a system's state. 
First, they declare how it should look like (e.g., x containers, y pods, etc.).
The orchestration tool will then automatically monitor the infrastructure and correct it if its state deviates from the declared one (e.g., spin up a new container if one crashes). 
```

> This includes a variety of tasks, such as provisioning, deployment, scaling (both up and down), networking, load balancing, and other activities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This automation simplifies many of the engineering teams' otherwise highly manual and complex operational tasks, including provisioning, deployment, scaling (up and down), networking, load balancing, and other activities.
```

---
title: Container Orchestration

> status: Draft

Reviewer 3: I like the idea of calling it draft instead of feedback appreciated, but if we introduce that here, we have to consequently change it in all other places, especially in the localization readmes. What about doing that in separate issue/PR?!

Reviewer 2: ok, let's talk about this in our next maintainer meeting. I think this is almost ready, so we can ignore here and update to completed once done.

Reviewer 3: agreed

category: Concept
---

## What it is
[Container](/container/) orchestration refers to managing and automating the lifecycle of containerized applications in dynamic environments. 

> It's executed through a [cloud native technology](/cloud-native-tech/) (in most cases, [Kubernetes](/kubernetes)) that enables deployments, (auto)scaling, auto-healing, and monitoring. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's executed through a container orchestrator (in most cases, [Kubernetes](/kubernetes)), which enables deployments, (auto)scaling, auto-healing, and monitoring. 
```

Reviewer 2: It felt like we are forcing cloud native technologies into that sentence

Orchestration is a metaphor. 
The orchestration tool conducts containers like a music conductor, ensuring every container (or musician) does what it should. 

## Problem it addresses 

> The rise of [cloud native apps](/cloud-native-apps/) and technologies and the fast-changing demands of modern businesses introduced a new set of problems. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
This sentence has been bothering me. It doesn't really flow with the rest. Thinking about it today, I don't think we need it. It's a little fluffy and the other two are to the point. Ok if we delete it?

Managing [microservices](/microservices), security, and network communication at scale — [distributed systems](/distributed-systems) in general — are hard, if not impossible, to manage manually.

> Container orchestration automates all these management tasks. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Container orchestration allows users to automate all these management tasks. 
```

---
title: Container Orchestration
status: Completed
category: Concept
---

## What it is
[Container](/container/) orchestration provides the ability to manage 
and automate the lifecycle of containerized applications in dynamic environments. 
This includes different aspects that are also pursued by [Cloud Native Technologies](/cloud-native-tech/) and [Cloud Native Apps](/cloud-native-apps/), 
such as: deployment, (auto)scaling, auto healing and monitoring.

> It functions like a data center operating system (OS), 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It works like a conductor of an orchestra, who makes sure that every part of the orchestra does what it should.
```

> managing [containerized](/containerization/) applications at scale 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

> (just like the OS on your laptop that manages your apps).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
